# Batch Execution

Now that we have orders submitted, how does the rest of the auction actually
work? As mentioned above, Pool conducts a _discrete_ batch auction every 10
minutes. This is distinct from regular continuous exchanges in that orders are
only cleared every 10 minutes. Orders are also sealed-bid, meaning that other
traders in the venue are unable to see what others have bid. On top of this, we
utilize a uniform-clearing price algorithm to give all traders in the batch the
_same_ interest rate. This is the same mechanism used by the U.S Treasury for
its bonds, and is intended to promote fairness as your order will only be
matched with a price better than your initial ask/bid.

Note that it's possible that after the 10 minutes interval has passed a market
can't be made \(supply and demand didn't cross\). In this case, nothing
happens, and we just wait for the next batch to come across.

### Matchmaking

The first stage in batch execution is the matchmaking that is done by the
auctioneer. Before actual matchmaking is performed, the auctioneer looks at the
current fee climate and decides what fee rate should be used for the final
Batch Execution Transaction, in order for the transaction to confirm in a
timely manner. All orders that have their `max_batch_fee_rate` set to a value
lower than the chosen fee rate are ignored from the auction this time around,
but will be reconsidered if the fee climate changes before the next auction.
This allows traders with a low time preference to submit orders that will stay
around on the order book and only be considered for matchmaking in times of low
chain fees.

Now that the transaction fee rate has been chosen, all orders still on the
order book are considered, and the auctioneer matches asks with bids that pay
at least the desired rate. The unsigned Batch Execution Transaction (BET) is
assembled and presented to all traders that had their orders matched, along
with information about the node they matched with.

### Batch Signing

When the trader's client receives a notification about a batch that is under
execution, it checks that every part of the BET that affects the trader meets
its requirements. This includes checking that the premium paid to the maker
matches the batch clearing price, and that the chain fee deducted from the
trader's account doesn't violate the max fee rate the trader agreed to.

Each match the trader was part of results in a channel output on the BET, and
the trader will also ensure this is well formed, and of the expected amount.
When that has been verified, the trader connects to the node on the other side
of the match, and starts the channel opening process with the channel peer.
Technically this is done by setting up a _funding shim_ with the backing `lnd`
node, which prepares `lnd` for a funding transaction setting up a channel with
the given parameters to be broadcast.

Only when all these checks are satisfactory and the channel funding shim has
been successfully set up, the trader signs its input to the batch transaction
and responds to the auctioneer. This ensures the trader is always _fully in
custody of its own funds_, and never signs a transaction that would send the
funds to an output it doesn't control.

Note that the trader can reject signing the batch for any reason, even when the
BET is well formed. For instance, connecting to the channel peer can fail,
resulting in the channel not being ready to be funded. The trader will reject
this match, and matchmaking can start over, making sure the trader won't be
matched with this channel peer again.

### Batch Publication

When all participating traders have signed their inputs in the Batch Execution
Transaction, the auctioneer can sign the final input and broadcast the
transaction. This transaction can be large, and serve as the funding
transaction for potentially hundres of channels! The participating traders only
pay chain fees for their inputs and outputs in the transaction, so everybody is
saving substantially on fees compared to individually funding channels.

## Batched Uniform-Price Clearing

To illustrate how the uniform price clearing works consider the following
example. Let's say I want to buy 100 million satoshis \(1 BTC, 1000 units\),
for 2 weeks \(2016 blocks\) at a price of 5% \(using high numbers to make it
easy to follow\). However, the _market clearing price_ \(where the
supply+demand curves cross\) is actually 1%. In this case I bid _more_ than the
market clearing price, but end up paying that price, as it's the best price
that was possible in that market.

A simple rule of thumb for bids and asks is as follows:

* When I submit a bid, I'll either pay that amount or less.
* When I submit an ask, I'll either receive that amount or more.

All orders in a batch are executed in a _single_ on-chain transaction. This
allows for thousands of channels to be bought/sold atomically in a single
block. We call the transaction that executes the orders the Batch Execution
Transaction.

The `pool auction` sub-command houses a number of useful commands to explore
the past batches, and examine the current auction parameters.

One can browse the latest cleared batch using the `pool auction snapshot`
command:

```text
üèî pool auction snapshot 
{
        "version": 0,
        "batch_id": "02a25623c6ebb497758d7f0bfbe8b06785f3e14364b4da689be5fe0f2dfbaec4ba",
        "prev_batch_id": "03aeeff15f081c61326914bc7026787dbc16e5734a3667af52cca6ddc419f583e6",
        "clearing_price_rate": 1636,
        "matched_orders": [
                {
                        "ask": {
                                "version": 0,
                                "lease_duration_blocks": 2016,
                                "rate_fixed": 1488,
                                "chan_type": 0
                        },
                        "bid": {
                                "version": 0,
                                "lease_duration_blocks": 2016,
                                "rate_fixed": 1636,
                                "chan_type": 0
                        },
                        "matching_rate": 1636,
                        "total_sats_cleared": "2500000",
                        "units_matched": 25
                }
        ],
        "batch_tx_id": "ae8c78f6b66747d5e94a533dd067fcd939e637e429079a7e19d7542993dc8922",
        "batch_tx": "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"
}
```

Here we see a batch where a single order was matched, at a clearing rate of
`1636`, with a single channel being purchased with a lifetime of `2016` blocks,
or roughly two weeks.

Note that the `pool auction snapshot` command can be used to determine the past
marker clearing price, which can be useful when deciding what your bid/ask
should be. There's no explicit "market buy" function, but submitting a bid/ask
at a similar `clearing_price_rate` to the historical one should put you close
to where the demand in the market is.

The command also accept a target `batch_id` as well. Here we can use the
`prev_batch_id` to examine the _prior_ batch, similar to traversing a
link-listed/blockchain:

```text
üèî pool auction snapshot --batch_id=03687baa3c7414e800ddba37edacb3281999739303b7290a69bd457f428ecd9b2c
```

